---
title: WordPress
subtitle: WoprdPress
sequence: 1000
show-headings-in-nav: true
---

# WordPress

[WordPress](https://wordpress.org/) is a an open-source content management system (CMS) written in PHP. It is the most popular CMS on the market, because it is simple, fast, reliable, and secure. Furthermore, WordPress removes the need to have a developer build your website or blog; it is typically managed instead by a Marketing team. It is also very easy to customize WordPress using their theme and plugin directories.

Since WordPress is open-source, it can be hosted multiple ways. While some companies host it on their internal or private cloud infrastructure, most leverage third-party hosting services that have some key features. 
Among the benefits of third-party hosting is that they:

- Remove the need for hardware and server management, such as:
  - Simplified WordPress upgrade procedures
  - Easy site cloning for 
    - site testing
    - upgrades that don't affect production
    - testing custom plugins and themes without affecting production
- Shift the ownership of your website from IT to Marketing

Some popular professional-grade WordPress hosting services include:

  - [Pressable](https://pressable.com/)
  - [Pantheon](https://pantheon.io/product/wordpress-hosting)
  - [WP Engine](https://wpengine.com/)


WordPress simplifies building and maintaining a website, and at its core, it is very reliable and secure because it's maintained by the WordPress team. However, there still may be a lot of risk in using the very popular third-party themes and plugins, because they are managed by the community. Concerns include:

  - unknown maintenance of plugins and themes
  - unknown third-party tools used
  - unclear what may be inadvertantly exposed to the end-user [[ATTN: RICH - unclear exactly what's happening; we can discuss]]

Because not all themes in the directory will fit your look and feel and to avoid security concerns, many companies will task their development team with building custom themes and plugins to meet visual and security needs.

BuildMaster facilitates the technological side of DevOps -- process of building, testing, and releasing custom themes and plugins -- AND the communication side. BuildMaster is a communication and automation tool because it will:

- Allow developers to build and maintain the customization of WordPress while still allowing your marketing team to own the website and content
  - Segregate your testing environments from your production environment, which allows for different versions of the themes and plugins to be built and tested prior to being to production
  - Automate the communication between development and marketing
  - Notify the right people or group at the right time (e.g., when a plugin is ready)
  - Require the proper approvals are met before changes are elevated between environments

## Configuration in Source Control {#source data-title="Configuration in Source Control"}

The first step is to create a delivery pipeline for your custom WordPress theme or plugin will be putting your code in source control. [[ATTN: RICH - there are two sentences in one sentence here. which is first? creating a pipeline or putting code in source control?]] BuildMaster integrates with a variety of [source control systems](/docs/buildmaster/ci-cd/continuous-integration/server/source-control), but we'll use GitHub for our examples in this document.

### Example: Getting Your Code from GitHub

[[ATTN: RICH - Intro sentence needed. Maybe "To begin a custom WordPress build in BuildMaster, create a GitHub project secure resource.]] After creating a GitHub project [secure resource](/docs/buildmaster/administration/resource-credentials), you can get the source code as follows:

```
GitHub::Get-Source
(
    From: InedoWordPressTheme,
    CommitHash => $CommitId,
);
Set-BuildVariable CommitId
(  
    Value: $CommitId  
);
```

This will also create a build-scoped variable to record the commit used.

## Creating Artifacts {#artifacts data-title="Creating Artifacts"}

A [build artifact](/docs/buildmaster/ci-cd/continuous-integration/packaging/artifacts) is essentially a zip file that is captured at the first stage of a pipeline and then deployed to each subsequent stage. Build artifacts [[ATTN: RICH - did changing "they" to "build artifacts" mess up the meaning here?]] ensure that the exact same code is deployed to each environment.

To create an artifact that can be used in WordPress:

```
Create-Artifact InedoWordPressTheme
(
    From: $WorkingDirectory
);
```

### Leveraging Custom Build Tools {#buildTools data-title="Custom Build Tools"}

WordPress code is not compiled, but you may want to use custom tools to aide in your CSS and Javascript development. [[ATTN: RICH - not clear what all this is; we should discuss so I can write addtl copy]] 

Some standard tools you might use are:
- CSS Pre-compilers (LESS, SASS, etc.)
- CSS Linters (CSSLint, StyleLint, etc.)
- JavaScript Linters (JSLint, ESLint, etc.)
- JavaScript Trans-pilers (TypeScript, CoffeeScript, etc.)

These tools all have CLIs that are used to compile or parse the code. To execute these in BuildMaster, simply use an `Exec` command.

An example using a the [less.js for Windows](https://github.com/duncansmart/less.js-windows) Pre-Compiler: [[ATTN: RICH - is it "a" or "the" here? (there are two articles)]]

```
set $LessFile = style.less;
Exec
(
    FileName: {LESS_HOME}\lessc,
    Arguments: $LessFile $Replace(.less, $LessFile, .css, true),
    WorkingDirectory: $WorkingDirectory
);
   
```

## Deploying your Theme or Plugin {#deploy data-title="Deploying"}

Custom themes and plugins in WordPress are normally installed by manually uploading them via the Administration screens. Best practice dictates that you should make a clone of your production site and test new changes to themes and plug-ins on the clone first to avoid breaks and downtime in your live Production environment.

BuildMaster streamlinse this process by notifying the user that is in charge of testing each environment. This can be tracked using the `Perform-ManualOperation`, which will halt the deployment until the specified user certifies that they performed the specified task. 

For example:
```
InedoCore::Send-Email
(
    To: "email@email.com, email2@email.com",
    Text: A new Theme is ready to be installed in $Environment
);

Perform-ManualOperation
(
    Name: Install Theme in $Environment
);
``` 

### Automating Using WP-CLI

WordPress has added official support for a command line interface (CLI). The [WP-CLI](https://make.wordpress.org/cli/handbook/) can be used to automate deployments of themes and plugins to WordPress as well as other development tasks. Many WordPress hosting providers support or plan to support the WP-CLI. You will need to check with your hosting provider if they support the WP-CLI. 

```
Exec
(
    FileName: {PHP_HOME}\php,
    Arguments: wp-cli.phar theme install {URL_OF_ZIP} --activate
)
```

Refer to the [WordPress installation document](https://make.wordpress.org/cli/handbook/installing/) to installing the WP-CLI.


## Tagging Applied Theme or Plugin {#tagging data-title="Tagging Applied Theme or Plugin"}

At the last stage of your pipeline, it's a good idea to apply a tag to the exact code that was elevated. This can be done using the commit captured in the first stage:

```
GitHub::Tag
(
    From: InedoWordPressTheme,
    Tag: $ReleaseNumber.$BuildNumber,
    Branch: $Branch,
    CommitHash: $CommitId
);
```
