---
title: Getting Started with Otter
subtitle: Getting Started with Otter
keywords: otter
sequence: 100
show-related-content: false
---

<script type="text/javascript">
    setTimeout(function () {
        var a = document.createElement("script");
        var b = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];
        a.src = document.location.protocol + "//script.crazyegg.com/pages/scripts/0053/9152.js?" + Math.floor(new Date().getTime() / 3600000);
        a.async = true; a.type = "text/javascript"; b.parentNode.insertBefore(a, b)
    }, 1);
</script>

Otter helps you provision and configure your servers automatically, without ever needing to log-in to a command prompt. You can define reusable sets of configurations called roles, and then scale your infrastructure by simply assigning these roles to any number of servers.

Otter continuously monitors your servers for configuration changes, and reports when there's configuration drift. You can set servers to automatically remediate drift, or schedule remediation and other configuration changes as needed.

You can manage everything from Otter's web-based dashboard, and selectively share your servers' configuration, state, and change history with other teams, without giving them control, or even requiring them to learn OtterScript.

### Here is a Short Guide to get you Started Quick:

In this tutorial, you will learn how to define reusable sets of configuration called "roles", and assign those roles to servers to scale your infrastructure.

<iframe width="600" height="337" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QDbXlehaP4s" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

*View the full step-by-step tutorial [here](https://inedo.com/support/tutorials/otter/provisioning-and-configuring-servers-with-otter){target="_blank"}.*

Otter will install on any supported version of Windows; simply [download](https://inedo.com/otter/download){target="_blank"}, and click through the installer to get Otter up and running in minutes. Through the installer, you select the edition you wish to install; a trial, the free edition, or enter a license key. Review the [step-by-step Installation Guide](/docs/otter/installation/installation-guide){target="_blank"} for details as to what's happening behind the scenes.

### Agents and Servers in Otter

To provision and configure your servers, Otter needs to be able to communicate with those servers over a fast and secure channel. There are a few options for doing this.

The Inedo Agent is generally the best way to communicate with a *Windows server*. It's a lightweight, highly-optimized agent that is simple to deploy and upgrade, but is also backwards- and forwards-compatible to minimize change risks. Alternatively, Otter can use *PowerShell Remoting* to communicate with Windows servers; however, this is generally slower and less resilient than the Inedo Agent protocol.

To communicate with Linux servers, Otter uses *SSH* and *SFTP*, and if you're using Otter to interact with the server it's installed on, you can just set it up using a *local agent*.

:::circle-button-set {style="text-align: center;"}
[Learn More About Agents & Servers](/docs/otter/administration/agents){.doc-button target="_blank"}
:::
