---
title: "Security"
order: 13
---

The Security API provides several `pgutil` commands (available as `pgutil security`) and HTTP endpoints to create, add, delete, and perform other operations on Users, Groups, Tasks and Permissions. All HTTP requests are made through the following base URL:

:::(info)
 `/api/security/...`
:::

## pgutil Commands

All HTTP endpoints of the Security API are available as `pgutil` commands. 

To find the list of commands available in `pgutil`, simply run `pgutil security --help`. See [Getting started with pgutil](/docs/proget/api/pgutil) to learn more.

## Available HTTP Endpoints

The Security API is comprised of endpoints for Users, Groups, Tasks and Permissions:

### 🙍‍♂️ User Management { #user-endpoints }

For managing Users in ProGet.

* [Create User](/docs/proget/api/security/users/create) - Creates a new User account
* [Edit User](/docs/proget/api/security/users/edit) - Modifies an existing User account
* [Delete User](/docs/proget/api/security/users/delete) - Deletes a User account
* [Show User](/docs/proget/api/security/users/show) - Displays information about a User account*
* [List Users](/docs/proget/api/security/users/list) - Lists User accounts

* Only available as a pgutil command.

### 🏢 Groups Management { #group-endpoints }

For managing user Groups and Group membership in ProGet.

* [Create Group](/docs/proget/api/security/groups/create) - Creates a new Group
* [Delete Group](/docs/proget/api/security/groups/delete) - Deletes a Group
* [List Groups](/docs/proget/api/security/groups/list) - Lists Groups
* [Add Group Member](/docs/proget/api/security/groups/add-member) - Adds a user to a Group
* [Remove Group Member](/docs/proget/api/security/groups/remove-member) - Removes a user from a Group
* [List Group Members](/docs/proget/api/security/groups/list-members) - Lists members of a Group

### ⚒ Tasks Management { #tasks-endpoints }

For managing and editing Tasks in ProGet, as well as creating, editing and deleting custom Tasks. 

* [Create Task](/docs/proget/api/security/tasks/create) - Creates a ProGet security Task
* [Delete Task](/docs/proget/api/security/tasks/delete) - Deletes a security Task from ProGet
* [List Tasks](/docs/proget/api/security/tasks/list) - Lists security Tasks in ProGet
* [List Task Attributes](/docs/proget/api/security/tasks/list-attributes) - List available security Task attributes

### 🔑 Permissions Management { #permissions-endpoints }

For managing the Permissions of Users and Groups in ProGet. 

* [Add Permission](/docs/proget/api/security/permissions/add) - Adds a Permission
* [Delete Permission](/docs/proget/api/security/permissions/delete) - Deletes a Permission
* [List Permissions](/docs/proget/api/security/permissions/list) - Lists configured Permissions

## Authenticating to Security API { #authentication }

The following is a summary of access types and their corresponding requirements for various API keys types and endpoints within this API.

| Access Type | Requirements |
| --- | --- |
| System API Keys | Required for all endpoints

To specify an API Key, use the request header (`X-ApiKey`), querystring (`key`), or `api:«api-key»` as the username. See [API Key Usage](/docs/proget/api/apikeys#using-api-keys) to learn more.

:::(Info) (🚀 Quick Example: Authenticating with curl)
For example, to authenticate with the API key `abc12345` to **List Users**, you could specify the API key as follows:
````
curl -X GET --header "X-ApiKey: abc12345" "https://proget.corp.local/api/security/users/list/"
````
:::

## Data Specifications { #data-specifications }

### SecurityUser Object Properties { #securityuser-object }
`SecurityUser` is a JSON object (see [SecurityUser.cs](https://github.com/Inedo/pgutil/blob/accesso/Inedo.ProGet/SecurityUser.cs)) that correspond to the fields on a User. It's used as input data for both [Create User]() and [Edit User](), and output data for [Show User](), [List Users]() and [List Group Members]().

#### JSON Object Example:

```json
{
    "name": "John Smith",
    "displayName": "jsmith",
    "mail": "jsmith@kramerica.com",
    "password": "password123", // this will be hidden in output
    "groups": ["Developers"] // refer to SecurityGroups object 
}
```

### SecurityGroup Object Properties { #securitygroup-object }
`SecurityGroup` is a JSON object (see [SecurityGroup.cs](https://github.com/Inedo/pgutil/blob/accesso/Inedo.ProGet/SecurityGroup.cs)) that correspond to the fields on a Group. It's used as input data for [Create Group]() and output data for [List Groups]().

#### JSON Object Example:

```json
{
    "name": "Developers",
    "user": [] // refer to SecurityUsers object
}
```

### SecurityTask Object Properties { #securitytask-object }
`SecurityTask` is a JSON object (see [SecurityTask.cs](https://github.com/Inedo/pgutil/blob/accesso/Inedo.ProGet/SecurityTask.cs)) that correspond to the fields on a Task. It's used as input data for [Create Task]() and output data for [List Tasks]().

#### JSON Object Example:

```json
{
    "name": "Basic Access",
    "description": "This allows basic access",
    "feedScoped": true,
    "attributes":    
     [
      "Feeds_ViewFeed",
      "Feeds_DownloadPackage",
      "Feeds_PullPackage"
      ]
}
```
### SecurityTaskAttribute Object Properties { #securitytaskattribute-object }
`SecurityTaskAttribute` is a JSON object (see [SecurityTaskAttribute.cs](https://github.com/Inedo/pgutil/blob/accesso/Inedo.ProGet/SecurityTaskAttribute.cs)) that correspond to the fields on a Task Attribute. It's used as output data for [List Task Attributes](/docs/proget/api/security/tasks/list-attributes).

#### JSON Object Example:

```json
{
    "name": "Feeds_ViewFeed",
    "feedScoped": true
}
```

### SecurityPermission Object Properties { #securitypermission-object }
`SecurityPermission` is a JSON object (see [SecurityPermission.cs](https://github.com/Inedo/pgutil/blob/accesso/Inedo.ProGet/SecurityPermission.cs)) that correspond to the fields on a Permission. It's used as input data for [Add Permission]() and output data for [List Permissions]().

#### JSON Object Example:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "group": "Administrators",
    "task": "Administer",
    "deny": false
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "user": "David Smith",
    "task": "View & Download Packages",
    "feed": "unapproved-nuget",
    "deny": true
  },
  {
    "id": 4,
    "group": "developers",
    "task": "View & Download Packages",
    "feedGroup": "production-packages",
    "deny": false,
  },
  {...}
]
```