---
title: Azure DevOps
subtitle: Integrating Azure DevOps with BuildMaster
sequence: 700
keywords: buildmaster, azure-devops, git
show-headings-in-nav: true
---

[Azure DevOps](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/devops/) is a CI/CD service provided as part of Microsoft's Azure platform. Their [pipelines](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/devops/pipelines/) support containers natively, so many shops building and deploying containers turn to Azure DevOps Pipelines.

BuildMaster is designed to work *alongside* Azure DevOps to provide a self-managed CI/CD solution. BuildMaster's Azure DevOps integration supports the following functionality:

{.docs}
 - [Source Control](azure-devops/source-control) *(Azure Repos)*
 - [Importing Builds](azure-devops/ci) *(Azure Pipelines)*
 - [Issue Tracking](azure-devops/issues) *(Azure Boards)*
 - [Branching and Pull Requests](azure-devops/branching)

## Installing the Azure DevOps Extension {#installing-github-extension data-title="Installing the Azure DevOps Extension"}

Simply navigate to the *Admin > Extensions* page in your instance of BuildMaster and click on the Azure DevOps extension to install it.

If your instance doesn't have Internet access, you can [manually install the Azure DevOps extension](/docs/buildmaster/reference/extensions#manual-install) after downloading the [Azure DevOps Extension Package](https://proget.inedo.com/feeds/Extensions/inedox/AzureDevOps).

## Connecting to Azure DevOps Using Resource Credentials {#credentials data-title="Connecting to Azure DevOps"}

An Azure DevOps [Resource Credential](/docs/buildmaster/administration/resource-credentials) is used to connect BuildMaster to Azure DevOps at the instance level, but also supports connections on a "team project collection" level. These credentials are effectively a username and [personal access token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/accounts/use-personal-access-tokens-to-authenticate?view=azure-devops), so we recommend creating a specific account with the minimum amount of privileges required to interact with Azure DevOps, typically the permissions to the projects that will be integrated with BuildMaster.

To connect to a standalone instance of Azure DevOps (i.e., Azure DevOps Server), make sure the instance URL of the resource credentials is configured to the hostname for your installation, for example: `https://azure-server.apps.corp`

Resource credentials can be defined at the system-level or the application-level, and they can inherit from one another, such that configuring the "parent" resource credential will automatically give that configuration to its "child" credentials. This allows you to define some fields (such as name/password) at the system level, while defining repository-specific information at the application level.

