---
title: PowerShell & Shell Scripting
keywords: otter,powershell,scripts
show-headings-in-nav: true
---

**PowerShell** is the standard for automating configuration on Windows servers, and **Bash/Sh** is the standard for automating configuration on Linux servers. Otter was designed to seamlessly integrate with both -- whether that means running your existing scripts across dozens of servers, leveraging scripts built by the community, or a custom combination of both.

While you definitely don't need to be a scripting guru to use Otter, learning how to incorporate scripts into your Otter plans will enable you to automate virtually any aspect of Windows or Linux.

## <a name="inline-powershell-execution"></a>Inline Script Execution {#inline-execution data-title="Inline PowerShell"}>

Through [PSExec](../reference/operations/powershell/psexec), [SHExec](/support/documentation/otter/reference/operations/general/execute-shell-script) and [Swim Strings](../reference/otter-script/strings-and-literals#string-syntax), you can incorporate scripts directly into your [Plans](/support/documentation/otter/core-concepts/plans).

<tab-block>
<tab name="PowerShell">

```
psexec >>
  # delete all but the latest 3 logs in the log directory
  Get-ChildItem "E:\Site\Logs\$ApplicationName" |
     Sort-Object $.CreatedDate -descending |
     Select-Object -skip 3 |
     Remove-Item
>>;
```

</tab>
<tab name="Shell">

```
shexec >>
  echo "Hello from $ApplicationName";
>>;
```

</tab>
</tab-block>

Otter will seamlessly replace variables within your powershell script, so in the example above `$ApplicationName` might be defined as a [Configuration Variable](../global-components/configuration-variables).

## <a name="calling-powershell-scripts"></a>Calling Scripts {#calling-scripts data-title="Calling PowerShell"}

After writing or uploading scripts as an [Asset](../core-concepts/assets), you can invoke them with [PSCall](../reference/operations/powershell/pscall) or [SHCall](/support/documentation/otter/reference/operations/general/shcall) as if they were an Operation.

<tab-block>
<tab name="PowerShell">

```
pscall CreateUserInDirectory(
  domain: hdars.local,
  user: $UserName
);
```

If you use PowerShell's header documentation standards, you'll get descriptions for script arguments when editing in visual mode.

</tab>
<tab name="Shell">

```
shcall ConfigDirectory(
  arguments: -domain=hdars.local -user=$UserName
);
```

</tab>
</tab-block>

## Evaluating PowerShell Literals {#evaluating-powershell-literals data-title="Evaluating PowerShell"}

OtterScript is not a general-purpose programming language, and thus doesn't have built-in support for things like arithmetic. You could, of course, write a [custom variable function](../execution-engine/runtime-variables#variable-functions) to support this, but [PSEval](/support/documentation/otter/reference/functions/powershell/pseval) is much easier:

For example, if you wanted to convert the value stored in one variable (`$minutes`) to milliseconds. You could PSEval the simple expression `$minutes * 60 * 1000`:

```
set $milliseconds = $PSEval($minutes * 60 * 1000);
```

$PSEval runs the expression on the server currently in context, so use it inside of an [If/Else Block](../execution-engine/statements-and-blocks/if-else) to perform different operations depending on the results of the expression on that server.

## PowerShell DSC {#powershell-dsc data-title="PowerShell DSC"}

[PowerShell Desired State Configuration (DSC)](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/dsc/overview) offers [quite a few open-source modules](https://github.com/powershell/) that you can use to configure different features of Windows Servers. With [PSDsc](../reference/operations/powershell/psdsc), you can invoke DSC Resources in nearly the same manner as a native DSC statement.

```
PSDsc xWebAppPool (
  Name: AccountsAppPool,
  Ensure: present
);
```

These declarative-style statements are essentially *Ensure Operations*, and thus will collect, report, and remediate drift just like the [Built-in Operations](/support/documentation/otter/reference/operations).

## Ensuring with Scripts {#ensuring-scripts data-title="Ensuring with PowerShell"}

You can also use PowerShell or Shell scripts to gather and ensure a configuration about a server using [PSEnsure](../reference/operations/powershell/psensure) and SHEnsure.

## Built-in Operations vs Scripts {#built-in-operations-scripts data-title="Scripts vs Operations"}

Because a script can do *anything*, there's an obvious overlap between Otter's built-in operations and a PowerShell CmdLet, or script that you might write.

In general, you should use a built-in Operation when possible. Operations are designed to be massively parallel, cancellation-aware, and highly performant, andvalso provide descriptions when viewed outside of code.

Many scripts, on the other hand, might be written to run interactively (i.e. in a command line), and may prompt for user input if an argument is missing, or does other things not suitable in for non-interactive, scalable environments.
