---
title: Node.js
subtitle: Building Node.js Applications
sequence: 300 
keywords: buildmaster, javascript, node-js
show-headings-in-nav: true
---

[Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) is a JavaScript runtime environment that allows developers to build various kinds of applications from console utilities to server-side web applications written in JavaScript. JavaScript has evolved from a client-side scripting language applicable only within HTML to a full-fledged development language spanning multiple tiers. Node applications can be developed using a variety of IDEs, including simple text editors, to Atom, to VSCode. Node is the language referred to as the "N" part of a MEAN development/deployment stack (MongoDB, Express, Angular, Node) used to quickly build dynamic websites.

## Building Node.js Applications {#building data-title="Building Node.js Applications"}

Because JavaScript is an interpreted language, it doesn't require compilation in the traditional sense of C/C++, however, there are several languages that "transpile" to JavaScript, including CoffeeScript, Dart, TypeScript, etc. Additionally, there are several productivity tools that can be executed in order to transform raw source code into the building blocks of an application:

{.docs}
 - **Babel** - converts modern JS into backwards-compatible JS code to run newer features on older platforms
 - **Broccoli** - a JS build tool that packages resources (images, CSS, JS, etc) into a distributable form
 - **Webpack** - a JS bundler that handles both applications/libraries (.js) and assets (images/fonts/stylesheets)
 - **JSLint** - static analysis tool for JS applications
 - **TypeScript** - a language developed by Microsoft that transpiles into JS
 - **Grunt** - a task-runner based on JS to automate common build or other repetitive tasks when developing JS applications
 - **Mocha** - a JS unit test runner
 
These tools are run as a series of command-line operations, commonly as part of a build script.

## Deploying Node.js Application {#deployment data-title="Deploying Node.js Applications"}

Node applications are typically deployed in one of the following ways:

{.docs}
 - packaged into containers, then deploying the container to a cloud host such as AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud
 - deployed directly to Apache or nginx if using the web framework [Express](https://expressjs.com/)
 - published to Platform-as-a-Service providers such as [Heroku](https://heroku.com)

Technically speaking, the publish process involves very little more than copying files. In BuildMaster's case, using the `Deploy-Artifact` operation is the simplest method to deploy Node.js applications.

## Package Management with npm {#npm data-title="Package Management (npm)"}

Most useful Node.js functionality is delivered through library packages served from [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/). 
Private registries (such as [ProGet](https://inedo.com/proget)) can also be used for an additional layer of reliability and security.

## Automation with BuildMaster {#buildmaster data-title="Automation with BuildMaster"}

::: {.attention .best-practice}
**See it live!** The *ProfitCalc Node.js Sample* is available when creating a new application in your own instance of BuildMaster.
:::

Because Node.js applications are built with a variety of console tools, it's as simple as running a series of `Exec` operations in a build plan that follows the general format:

{.docs}
 - Install npm packages
 - Lint the source
 - Transpile source code
 - Run unit tests or static analysis
 - Capture artifact or package into container

Other tools (such as the ones [listed earlier](#building)) can be run following depending on your organization's requirements. After these tools are run, build output is usually some form xcopyable code, and the output can be captured into a build [artifact](/docs/buildmaster/builds/packaging/artifacts) or packaged into a container to be deployed in future pipeline stages.