---
title: "RPM (Yum)"
order: 15
---

[RPM Package Manager](https://rpm.org/) (RPM, originally Red Hat Package Manager), is a free, open-source package management system used by many Linux distributions including Red Hat and CentOS. As of ProGet v5.2.25, RPM packages can be hosted and installed from ProGet.

## Prerequisite Configuration

In order to install packages from ProGet, each client must perform the following steps:

1. Add a .repo file to `/etc/yum.repos.d`

Yum stores its repository configuration in .repo files located in `/etc/yum.repos.d/`. To register a ProGet feed as a repository, create a new `«repo-name»`.repo file in that directory with content:

```bash
[«repo-name»]
name=«repo-name»
baseurl=http://«proget-url»/rpm/«feed-name»/
gpgcheck=0
enabled=1
```

Note that `«repo-name»` can be anything, but we recommend using the ProGet feed name for clarity.

2. Verify yum configuration

To verify that Yum is able to download package metadata, execute:

```bash
$ yum repolist all
```

If the configuration is correct, this will list all repos (including the ProGet feed registered in Step 1).

## Installing Packages

RPM packages are installed using Yum. To install a package hosted by ProGet, use the command: 

```bash
yum install «package-name»
```

## Creating Packages

To learn how to create an RPM package, follow Step 3 in our guide on [HOWTO: Publish RPM Packages to a Private Repository in ProGet](/docs/proget/feeds/rpm/howto-rpm-publish#step-3-build-your-package).

## Publishing Packages

To publish your package to your ProGet RPM feed, you can use Inedo's [pgutil](/docs/proget/reference-api/proget-pgutil) tool.

pgutil will require some [minor configuration](/docs/proget/reference-api/proget-pgutil#sources) before use. Upload your packages by entering:

```bash
$ pgutil packages upload --feed=«feed-name» --input-file=«path-to-package»
```
### ProGet 2023 and Earlier

To push an RPM package via HTTP, issue a `PUT` or `POST` request with the package file as the content to: `http://«proget-url»/rpm/feed-name»/`

:::(info)(🚀 Quick Example: Uploading an RPM package with curl)

This example will upload the RPM package `mypackage-1.0.0.rpm` to the feed `internal-rpm` with the API key `abc12345`:

```bash
$ curl http://proget.corp.local/rpm/internal-rpm/ --user api:abc12345 --upload-file mypackage-1.0.0.rpm
```
:::

## Connectors for RPM (Yum) Feeds

Starting in ProGet 2023.22, RPM (Yum) feeds support connectors to other ProGet RPM (Yum) feeds, official RPM repositories, and other third-party repositories.

When connecting to an official RPM repository, ProGet will periodically download the index file. To add a connector, follow Step 2 in our guide on [HOWTO: Aggregate RPM Repositories in ProGet](/docs/proget/feeds/rpm/howto-rpm-proxy#step-2)

When creating a connector to an official repository, we recommend using a name that follows the URL conventions. For example: 

<table>
    <tr><td>URL:</td><td><code>https://mirror.stream.centos.org/9-stream/BaseOS/x86_64/os/</code></td></tr>
    <tr><td>Connector name:</td><td><code>centos-9-stream-baseos-x86_64-os</code></td></tr>
</table>

You can see a list of the default repositories in the `/etc/yum.repos.d/` directory on a new installation.