---
title: Importing Builds (Jenkins, Drop Folder, etc.)
sequence: 300
show-headings-in-nav: true
---

BuildMaster can import build artifacts from any of three internal sources: 1) CI servers; 2) Package servers (such as ProGet); 3) Drop folders. In addition, BuildMaster can use OtterScript, a programmatic language, to fully customise build imports using build triggers.

Collectively, this functionality solves the problems created by build processes that unfold as a series of 'siloed' (i.e.: disconnected) processes and tools.

BuildMaster takes care of automation gaps by using OtterScript to model your existing process/tool stack instead of rewriting everything to fit a monolith tool. It also gives you visibility into the whole process so that each of these automations looks like environments in a pipeline.

Fulfilling Automation Directives & Avoiding the Monolith Trap

Organisations must often manage hundreds of applications spread across Jenkins, TeamCity, etc. inside their portfolio—many of which have dedicated, legacy build processes that function using drop folders. 'Build pipelines' are actually chains of disconnected, output sequential tasks like:

Pulling artifacts from source control into Jenkins
Manually transferring artifacts into drop folders
Writing complicated scripts to deploy artifacts onto additional servers

An example of a common build process is to begin with an artifact in source control, pull it into Jenkins, then manually pull it onto a server, place it on a shared folder, and then finally run scripts that deploy it to a server.

Handoffs between these siloed processes are often inefficient and error prone, in turn leading to directives to completely automate builds. But 'rebuilding' the connections between these legacy build silos is often never even considered. There are two reasons for this.

First, development teams conceptualize each task in the pipeline chain as an 'island', and so team leaders equate creating connections between them with the need for a total overhaul. Assumptions like "we need to get rid of Jenkins and the scripts we use to pull artifacts from it" lead to the conclusion that the best way to handle an automation directive is to move everything into a monolith tool.

Second, familiarity with the corporate narrative that monolith tools are the 'default' solution narrows team leads' thinking. Monolith stakeholders also encourage dependency via their GUI and functional bottlenecks: Build tabs encourage the remaking of build definitions; Deploy tabs discourage the use of legacy scripts; CI limitations confine thinking to the use of a single repository; Issue trackers force the abandonment of popular tools like JIRA.

Ultimately, conforming legacy build processes to a monolith's given functionality becomes the default, rather than the other way around. Legacy solutions get deconstructed and then recreated with new deployment automation in order to fit the tool's functionality—an excellent business proposition for the tool's owner but costly and unnecessary for the organization.

## Connecting to your CI Server Using Resource Credentials {#connecting data-title="Connecting to your CI Server"}

[Resource credentials](/docs/buildmaster/administration/resource-credentials) are used to connect BuildMaster to your Continuous Integration (CI) server, whether that's Azure DevOps in the cloud or a self-managed TeamCity Server. Each supported CI server has its own type of Resource Credential, and that type is defined in the corresponding extension.

For example, installing the [Jenkins extension](/den/jenkins) will allow you to create a Jenkins Resource Credential. When creating a resource credential for a CI server, you'll enter two types of information:

- Server connection information, such as your Jenkins Server's URL or a TeamCity API endpoint
- Credential information, such as username and password or an authorization token

You can create as many resource credentials as you need, at both the system- and application-level, which means you can connect to multiple CI servers and share those connections across applications. This allows your team to continue working with whatever variety of tools they already use and love.

## Importing Artifacts from CI Server Builds {#importing-artifacts data-title="Importing Artifacts"}

A continuous integration can be configured to not only compile your application's source code and run automated tests against it, but to capture "artifacts" of that process. These artifacts typically include whatever files the compiler output, i.e. your compiled application.

BuildMaster can automatically import these artifacts so you can deploy them as needed. This ensures that BuildMaster will be able to deploy it to future stages whether the CI server is accessible or not; in addition, the relationship doesn't require active access from both.

Different types of operations are used to get artifacts from different CI servers and projects in those systems. For example, `Jenkins::Import-Artifact` is used to get artifacts from a build job on a Jenkins server, and `  TeamCity::Import-Artifact` is used for TeamCity.

### Example: Simple Import from a TeamCity Server

For example, here's a very simple import from a TeamCity server using a credential named `KramericaTeamCity`.

     TeamCity::Import-Artifact
     (
         Credentials: KramericaTeamCity,
         Project: ProfitCalc,
         BuildConfiguration: v8builds,
         Artifact: profit-calc-web.zip
     ); 

### HOWTO: Use Import Artifact Operations 

The specifics of these operations are documented in the corresponding *Tool & Service Integrations* pages, but they are all used similarly. Essentially, you specify various option using parameters:

1. **Specify a Resource Credential**, which tells the operation which server to connect to. These can be specified and overridden on the operation itself, which means you technically don't need to use a resource credential at all. There are only a few cases where this would be appropriate, such as retrieving code from a public repository using its URL.
2. **Specify a Job/Project Configuration**, which tells the operation which set of builds to import from the CI server. This is server specific, as Jenkins uses Jobs, TeamCity uses Projects and Build Configurations, and many have different options (such as a Branch) to further clarify.
3. **Specify Build Number**, whether that's a variable like $TeamCityBuildNumber that comes from a prompt (see [Prompting for Build Numbers](#prompting-for-build-numbers)) or a provider-specific label like "lastSuccessful" or "lastFinished"
4. **Specify Artifact Name(s)**, which are the files to download and associate with the BuildMaster build

Like all operations in OtterScript, you specify variables for any of these parameters

### Example: Import from a Team City Server

This operation configuration has a lot of properties defined for illustrative purposes, and will get source from the [`accounts` repository](https://github.com/kramerica-industries/accounts) under the `kramerica-industries` organization (no resource credential needed because it's a public).

    TeamCity::Import-Artifact
    (
        Credentials: KramericaTeamCity,
        Project: ProfitCalc,
        BuildConfiguration: v8builds,
        Artifact: profit-calc-web.zip
    );

## Automatically Queueing/Starting Builds on your CI Server {#starting-builds data-title="Automatically Starting CI Builds"}

The easiest type of integration is to simply [import that last successful build](/docs/buildmaster/builds/external-systems/teamcity#importing-builds) from your CI server, as discussed above. But you may wish to have BuildMaster create a build in your CI server instead.

There a few reasons you may want to do this:

- Create different builds then are automatically triggered by check-in
    - A "Release Configuration" build that instructs the compiler to optimize for speed and does not include debugging symbols
    - A "Release Branch" build that uses a different source control branch to create the build
- Inject contextual information from BuildMaster (release number, etc.) into the application code after it's checked-out but prior to being built by your CI server; you can then display this information once the application is running in an environment
- Link from your CI server back to the application or build in BuildMaster, so you can have cross-links in both system

Fortunately, this is all easy with OtterScript. Different types of operations are used to queue or start builds on different CI servers. For example, `Jenkins::Queue-Build` is used to start a build job on a Jenkins server, and `  TeamCity::Queue-Build` is used to create a build on TeamCity.

### HOWTO: Use the Queue/Start Operations 

The specifics of these operations are documented in the corresponding *Tool & Service Integrations* pages, but they are all used similarly. Essentially, you specify various option using parameters.

1.  **Specify a Resource Credential**, which tells the operation which server to connect to. These can be specified and overridden on the operation itself, which means you technically don't need to use a resource credential at all. There are only a few cases where this would be appropriate, such as retrieving code from a public repository using its URL.
2. **Specify a Job/Project Configuration**, which tells the operation which job or configuration to create a build from on the CI server. This is server specific, as Jenkins uses Jobs, TeamCity uses Projects and Build Configurations, and many have different options (such as a Branch) to further clarify.
3. **Specify Arguments** that will be used by the underlying configuration; these are typically user-defined keys or variables that will, in turn, be passed to the tools the CI server uses, such as MSBuild or Maven
4. **Specify Whether to Wait** which determines whether BuildMaster will wait for the build to complete, or just queue it and continue executing your OtterScript; generally speaking, you should wait for builds so that it's clear in the execution logs whether it was successful or not

Like all operations in OtterScript, you specify variables for any of these parameters.

### Example: Queuing a Jenkins Build then Importing Created Artifacts 

For example, here's a set of operations that will queue a build in Jenkins with a "release" configuration, then import the created artifacts after completion:

    Jenkins::Queue-Build
    (
        Credentials: KramericaJenkins,
        Job: ProfitCalc,
        AdditionalParameters: bldconfig=release&ext_trg=yes,
        WaitForCompletion: true,
        JenkinsBuildNumber => $JenkinsBuildNumber
    );
    Jenkins::Import-Artifact
    (
        Credentials: KramericaJenkins,
        Job: ProfitCalc,
        BuildNumber: $JenkinsBuildNumber,
        Artifact: archive.zip
    );

## Capturing CI Server Build Numbers {#capturing data-title="Capturing CI Server Build Numbers"}

Whether you [prompt for a build number](/docs/buildmaster/builds/external-systems/teamcity#self-service) or ask the CI server for the lastSucessfulBuild, BuildMaster lets you capture and link this back to your CI server's build number.

Capturing this reference at build time is very important so you can see *exactly* what code was used to create the build artifacts:

- **From a debugging perspective**,  this saves you wasted time trying to figure out which code was deployed and saves frustration when the deployed application doesn't seem to match the code
- **From an auditing perspective**, this lets you see exactly who made which changes to a deployed application and when those changes were made

BuildMaster gives you a lot of flexibility in capturing this information. Although you could always manually dig through the execution logs to find this information, a simpler approach is as follows.

1. Specify an *_output parameter*_ on the appropriate operation (such as [import artifact] or [queue build]); the operation will them set the value of runtime variable to be the CI server's build number;
2. Set a build variable from the runtime variable; because runtime variables only exist during build time, capturing this as a build variable will create a permanent record on the build

### Example: Capturing Jenkins Build Number

By simply specifying the `TeamCityBuildNumber` output parameter and the `$tcBuildNumber` runtime variable, the `Set-BuildVariable` operation will set the value of `$tcBuildNumber` to be the Jenkins build number. You can then use this to identify everything about the code that went into the build.

    TeamCity::Queue-Build
    (
        Credentials: KramericaTeamCity,
        Project: ProfitCalc,
        BuildConfiguration: v8builds,
        Artifact: profit-calc-web.zip,
        TeamCityBuildNumber => $tcBuildNumber
    ); 
    
    Set-BuildVariable TeamCityBuildNumber
    (
        Value: $tcBuildNumber
    );

The second operation will then set `$TeamCityBuildNumber` as a build variable, which means it will be not only visible on the build page, but you can also use it in all future deployments on that build.

:::attention {.technical}
**Tip: Use a Variable Renderer to Display a Hyperlink**
You can do this in BuildMaster with [Variable Value Renderers](/docs/buildmaster/administration/value-renderers).  These are essentially instructions for how to render variables in the UI that have certain names (such `$JenkinsBuildNumber`). Because you can specify HTML in a value renderer, you link directly to your CI server to help with easy navigation for users.
:::

## Prompt for Build Number at Build Time {#prompting-for-build-numbers data-title="Prompt for Build Numbers"}

Using distinct build numbers for each build will help keep documentation clear, avoid silos and confusion, and will make tracking a specific build much simpler. Assigning a distinct build number at the time of the build, therefore, distinguishes the build from its inception.

When you create a new build from the web UI, a dropdown box appears. From here, you can select the build numbers that were generated by your CI Server.

Variable prompts are configured in an application's [Release Templates](/docs/buildmaster/releases/templates). If you're not familiar with the feature, that's okay-- all applications have a "Default" release template that's used behind-the-scenes to determine which pipeline to use, and which variables to prompt for at release, build, and deploy time.

After you configure a branch name variable prompt (e.g. `$JenkinsBuildNumber`), BuildMaster will create a build-scoped variable based on whatever the user selects. You can use that variable in your OtterScript plans to import artifacts from that build.

### Example: Creating a Drop-down for Jenkins Builds

The following steps will configure a `$JenkinsBuildNumber` variable prompt when new builds are created that defaults to `master`.

- Navigate to the Default release template (Releases > Release Template > "Default")
- Add a Build Template Variable
    - Type: Select "Dynamic List"
        - This will open a window where you can select the type of list
        - Select "Jenkins Builds" as the type
        - Select the Credential you've already configured
    - Name: JenkinsBuildNumber
    - Initial value: lastSuccessfulBuild
    - Options: value is required
    
## Automatically Importing into BuildMaster after CI Build {#auto-starting data-title="Automatically Importing into BuildMaster"}

At the end of a build process in your CI server, you may wish to automatically import those artifacts into BuildMaster so you can smoothly move these builds into the pipeline for testing and release. This can be programmatically done using the [Release & Build Deployment API](/docs/buildmaster/reference/api/release-and-build). 

When you want to specify the build number to import from, simply specify that as a variable (e.g. `$JenkinsBuildNumber`) when making the API request.

That will automatically create a build-scoped variable, which can then be used in your OtterScript plans to import artifacts from that build.

### Example: Triggering an Importing Artifact Build Using PowerShell 

    Invoke-WebRequest http://{buildmaster-server}/api/releases/builds/create `
    -ContentType "application/json" `
    -Method POST `
    -Body '{"applicationName": "hdars", "releaseNumber": "2.14.0", "$JenkinsBuildNumber": "88512" }' `
    -Headers @{"X-ApiKey" = "<api-key>"}

